
// This is a note for things learned in how internet works

Source: http://web.stanford.edu/class/msande91si/www-spr04/readings/week1/InternetWhitepaper.html

Outline:
1. What is internet
2. IP
3. Packets
4. TCP
5. DNS



What is internet: 

Internet is a network of networks

Example hierarchy: Your computer -> LAN -> MAN (Collection of  LAN ) ->  WAN (Collection of Man)


IP:

Internet protcol. This is a address of a computer connected to a network. This is provided by ISP.


TCP:

TCP is Transmission control protcol. This defines the standard for communication between the networks.

This will have the information like, Port address, Source and destintion IP address
TCP make sure all the Packets of a single request is received. The receiver TCP will acknowledge if all the packets are successfully received.
Sender TCP is the one need to make sure all the packets are successfully transferred.


PORT:

Each computer will have many number of ports and we need to know the port of the computer to post the data to correct listening application on that computer.


Packets:

The data is sent over the network as a Packets. Packets are chunks of data.  Data is represented as bits.

Packet will have IP, TCP and Data details


Data Transmission Modes: 

Data is represented in bits and bits are carried over telephone lines or fiber cables or through wifi signals.


DNS:

Domain name service, Its a collection of servers that hold the mapping of IP to domain name. 

Each ISP will have a base domain server. The requested domain will be searched in the base domain server.
Lets assume Server A is a base domain and it does not have the requested domain mapping. Server A request for the other server (Server B) in its hierarchy.
If server B also not have the mapping it request other domain servers till the domain mapping found. And the IP will be retured from the last domain server to the previous
requested one and so .
Eg: 

Server A   (Not has the domain record so request other server) -> Server B (not have it) -> Server C (Has the record)

Server C (send response) -> Server B -> Server A




Hierarchy of Information sharing :

Client                           
Application Protocol: Http/SMTP   (Port)
|
TCP
|
IP
|
Hardware



Sharing pacets over network:

TCP and Routers are the key role players in packet sending and receiving.

Routers will have the route table for Ips.
The path to Source and destintion will not always be same. Routers will decide the path based on the traffic congestion of the route.

A single data can be splitted to multiple packets based on its size. Each packet may not take the same path to reach destintion.
So packets arriving will have time difference. TCP ensures the data consistency on sharing.

